Clarify how TLS works and when sensitive information in URIs should not be used (#277)
Logius-standaarden/API-Design-Rules: sections/designRules.md

Reviewer: suggestie : al op dit niveau de 'uitzondering' aangeven :

Statement
No sensitive information in URIs

In case of REST-API's for system to system communication on a closed network: This rule applies only when there is logging involved in systems that are not under control of the client and server organizations involved in the exchange  
```suggestion
         Do not put any sensitive information in URIs
         
         In case of REST-API's for system to system communication on a closed network: This rule applies only when there is logging involved in systems that are not under control of the organizations involved in the exchange 
```

Author: Ik begrijp de redenering en op deze manier formuleren is wat mij betreft akkoord, met een kleine aanpassing:

> In case of REST-API's for system to system communication on a closed network: This rule applies only when there is logging involved in systems that are not under control of the ~~client and server~~ organizations involved in the exchange

Suggestie voor het weglaten van "client and server", omdat anders de interpretatie kan ontstaan dat het niet geldt voor tussenliggende systemen (netwerkcomponenten) die onder controle staan van de betrokken organisaties.

Reviewer: Ok, Ik heb dit aangepast in de concrete suggestie bij het statement

The REST architectural style is centered around the concept of a [=resource=]. A resource is an abstraction of a conceptual entity, identified by a globally unique [=URI=]. It may correspond to anything from a physical object (e.g. a building or a person) to an abstract concept (e.g. a permit, an event or today's weather). Although a resource is not tied to any specific exchange format, its current state can be transferred to clients through one or more representations, such as JSON or XML.

<span id="api-05"></span>

> 

Reviewer 2: Stylistische wijzigingen moeten worden gescheiden van inhoudelijke wijzigingen. Stylistische wijzigingen kunnen we namelijk elk moment mergen, inhoudelijke wijzigingen enkel na goedkeuring bij Technisch Overleg.

Dat gezegd hebbende, deze new lines lijken mij niet nodig, dus die zou ik terug draaien. De wijzigingen aan lijsten kan wel, dus stuur daar gerust een aparte PR voor.

Reviewer 2: @diderikvw Zou je ajb de stylistische wijzigingen uit deze PR kunnen halen? Anders is het onoverzichtelijk wat de inhoudelijke wijziging is in deze PR. Zodra die eruit zijn kan ik het doorsturen naar andere API experts voor hun feedback.

Author: @TimvdLippe Gedaan. Prettier mayhem in VS Code.

      </dd>
      <dt>Rationale</dt>
      <dd>

>          <p>When using TLS connections, the path and query information in URIs are secured just like the message headers and body. However, before the TLS connection starts on the server, after the TLS connection ends on the client and whenever the TLS protocol is terminated and newly initiatied in between, URIs can be cached and logged, as can headers and bodies. For REST API's that are accessed directly from user devices, like web browsers, do not put client secrets used for authentication, privacy sensitive information or any other information which should not be shared in the URI, since these are directly visible to users, are stored in the web browser's history and cache and can be bookmarked and sent to others.

Reviewer 2: Om de zinnen iets beter te laten lopen en korter te maken:

```suggestion
         <p>When using TLS connections, the path and query information in URIs are secured just like the message headers and body. However, URIs can be cached and logged, as can headers and bodies in the following situations:
         <ul>
           <li>before the TLS connection starts on the server
           <li>after the TLS connection ends on the client
           <li>whenever the TLS protocol is terminated and newly initiated in between
         </ul>
         <p>For REST API's that are accessed directly from user devices, like web browsers, do not put client secrets used for authentication, privacy sensitive information or any other information which should not be shared in the URI. These are directly visible to users, are stored in the web browser's history and cache and can be bookmarked and sent to others.
```

         <p>Be aware that queries (anything after the '?' in a URI) are also part of a URI.
      </dd>

>       <p class="note">The term sensitive is deliberatly left undefined in this document.</p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      <p class="note">The term sensitive is deliberately left undefined in this document.</p>
```

      </dd>
      <dt>Rationale</dt>
      <dd>
         <p>When using TLS connections, the path and query information in URIs are secured just like the message headers and body. However, URIs can be cached and logged, as can headers and bodies in the following situations:
         <ul>
           <li>before the TLS connection starts on the server
           <li>after the TLS connection ends on the client
           <li>whenever the TLS protocol is terminated and newly initiated in between
         </ul>
         <p>For REST API's that are accessed directly from user devices, like web browsers, do not put client secrets used for authentication and other sensitive information in the URI. These are directly visible to users, are stored in the web browser's history and cache and can be bookmarked and sent to others.

>          <p>For REST API's that are only used for system-to-system interation on closed networks where all systems are under control of the involved client and server organisations, do not put client secrets used for authentication in the URI and be careful to put sensitive information in the URI. Intermediate network components that terminate and newly initiate TLS could log or otherwise store URIs. Consider the consequences, advantages and disadvantages of using sensitive information in the URI and be deliberate about which information is logged, for which purposes and who has access.

Reviewer: For REST API's that are only used for system-to-system interation on closed networks where all systems are under control of the involved client and server organisations, do not put client secrets used for authentication in the URI and be careful to put sensitive information in the URI. Intermediate network components that terminate and newly initiate TLS could log or otherwise store URIs. Consider the consequences, advantages and disadvantages of using sensitive information in the URI and be deliberate about which information is logged, for which purposes and who has access.
```suggestion
         <p>For REST API's that are only used for system-to-system integration on closed networks where all systems are under control of the involved client and server organisations, do not put client secrets used for authentication in the URI and be careful to put sensitive information in the URI. Intermediate network components that terminate and newly initiate TLS could log or otherwise store URIs. Consider the consequences, advantages and disadvantages of using sensitive information in the URI and be deliberate about which information is logged, for which purposes and who has access.
```

      </dd>
      <dt>Rationale</dt>
      <dd>
         <p>Even when using TLS connections, information in URIs is not secured. URIs can be cached and logged outside of the servers controlled by clients and servers. Any information contained in them should therefore be considered readable by anyone with access to the network (in the case of the internet, the whole world) and MUST NOT contain any sensitive information. This includes client secrets used for authentication, privacy sensitive information or any other information which should not be shared.
         <p>Be aware that queries (anything after the '?' in a URI) are also part of a URI.
      </dd>

>       <p class="note">It is up to you what the definition of sensitive means for your context. The term sensitive is deliberatly not defined in this document.</p>

Reviewer 2: Spec tekst heeft geen target audience, dus "you" moeten we vermijden (ik kom er achter dat we wat andere gevallen hiervan hebben, dus die zal ik ook opruimen).

```suggestion
      <p class="note">The term sensitive is deliberately not defined in this document as its definition depends on its context.
```
